h1. LJSimpleRegisterLookup

LJSimpleRegisterLookup provides a web-based GUI for our device MODBUS maps.
LJSimpleRegisterLookup is released under the GNU GPL v2 license. 


h2. Overview for the project (tl;dr)

*LJSimpleRegisterLookup*
Simple Register Lookup provides a device drop-down menu that then displays MODBUS maps in a searchable / paginated table. In addition to this embeddable front-end, a programmatic API is also available using simple HTTP GET requests on URLs following the pattern http://ljsimpleregisterlookup.herokuapp.com/lookup/U3.json. LabJack currently serves this tool at available at http://ljsimpleregisterlookup.herokuapp.com.

*LJScribe*
LJScribe generates HTML documentation for registers based on the JSON modbus map. LabJack currently serves this tool at http://ljsimpleregisterlookup.herokuapp.com/scribe.

*LJMMM / LJSL*
This project implements Python parsers for both LabJack MODBUS Map Markup and LabJack Scribe Language. The formal spec for LJMMM, the markup that aids in the construction of the JSON MODBUS map, is available at http://jsfiddle.net/Q2F4V/embedded/result/ and an informal discussion follows. LJSL, the language used with LJScribe, does not currently have a formal spec but a brief discussion also follows.


h2. LJMMM

LabJack MODBUS Map Markup provides automatic enumeration of names and registers in LabJack's JSON MODBUS map. While a formal spec is at http://jsfiddle.net/Q2F4V/embedded/result/, LJMMM fields interprets both special fields in register names as well as data types for the automatic enumeration of addresses. The existing "JSON MODBUS map":https://bitbucket.org/labjack/ljm_constants/src/HEAD/LabJack/LJM/ljm_constants.json?at=master&fileviewer=file-view-default already uses LJMMM extensively.

*Names*
LJMMM names are interpreted as LMMM Field Language which should consist of all caps with numbers and underscores. The pound sign indicates enumeration as the four following examples demonstrate:

* TEST_AND_TESTING becomes TEST_AND_TESTING.
* AIN#(10:3:2) becomes the collection: AIN10, AIN12, AIN14.
* AIN#(5:3) becomes the collection: AIN5, AIN6, AIN7. This is equivalent to AIN#(5:3:1).
* TEST_poundTESTING becomes TEST#TESTING.

*Addresses*
LJMMM specifies the available list of value data types that may extend beyond a 2 byte MODBUS register and, thus, provides automatic enumeration for addresses. Those valid datatypes include:

* FLOAT32
* UINT16
* UINT32
* UINT64
* INT16
* INT32
* INT64
* STRING

Please note that LJMMM attempts to standardize the other attributes of JSON objects in the MODBUS map and, before editing that document, please review the "short formal spec":http://jsfiddle.net/Q2F4V/embedded/result/.


h2. LJSL

"LJScribe":http://ljsimpleregisterlookup.herokuapp.com/scribe reads LabJack Scribe Language to produce HTML output. Basically Scribe looks for @registers: or @registers(Title Text): followed by a comma separated list of LJMMM Field Language entries. Currently scribe limits these fields to a single enumeration. So, AIN#(1:10) is valid but AIN#(1:10)_#(1:10) is not currently supported. An example of input into LJScribe is at https://gist.github.com/Samnsparky/7122519 and the corresponding output is at http://jsfiddle.net/sampottinger/36vCD/. Notice that the styling in the jsfiddle is slightly different than how it will appear on LabJack's pages due to inherited CSS rules.


h2. Technology used

The back-end is written in Flask (Python, http://flask.pocoo.org/) and runs on Heroku (http://www.heroku.com/). The front-end uses jQuery (http://jquery.com/), jQuery UI (http://jqueryui.com/), and DataTables (http://www.datatables.net/). The current deployment uses Gunicorn (http://gunicorn.org/) for its web server. 


h2. Development Environment Setup

The rest of this README concerns the development and modification of LJSimpleRegisterLookup, LJScribe, and LJMMM / LJSL, a discussion more suited for LabJack developers and not users of these solutions.

Requirements:
* Heroku account with Heroku toolbelt (https://toolbelt.heroku.com/).
* Get collaborator permissions on Heroku.
* Get collaborator permissions on GitHub.

Steps:
* Clone this repo ($ git clone --recursive git@github.com:Samnsparky/ljsimpleregisterlookup.git)
* cd into directory
* $ heroku login
* $ git remote add heroku git@heroku.com:ljsimpleregisterlookup.git

Note that this repository has sub-modules and --recursive or equivalent is necessary during cloning.


h2. Development Standards

All Python documentation is written in epydoc (http://epydoc.sourceforge.net/) and all JavaScript documentation is written in jsdoc (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSDoc). The development team has not set the precedent for client-side code testing but server logic should be tested using the Python unittest module as appropriate (http://docs.python.org/2/library/unittest.html). The application uses the ljm_constants.json file in the "LJM_constants":https://bitbucket.org/labjack/ljm_constants repository.


h2. Virtualenv

LJSimpleRegister lookup uses virtualenv (http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv) and the gunicorn server. Also, to accommodate cross-scripting security considerations, the client-side JavaScript has a hard-coded URL.

To set up locally:
* $ virtualenv venv
* $ source venv/bin/activate
* $ pip install -r requirements.txt

You can leave the virtual environment with @$ deactivate@.


h2. Automated Testing

All unit tests can be run with @$ python runtests.py@.


h2. Local Development Server

A local web server can be run either through Flask or Gunicorn. Gunicorn:

* $ foreman start
* Navigate to 127.0.0.1:5000 or localhost

Alternatively, Flask:

* $ python simple_register_lookup.py
* Navigate to 127.0.0.1:5000 or localhost


h2. Deployment

Heroku handles server-side configuration and deployment. To deploy:
* Commit all changes to GitHub ($ git push)
* $ git push heroku master
* The page on labjack.com should not need to be changed but, if it does, use the code in drupal_snippet.html_snippet. Be aware that Drupal's TinyMCE editor may try to change the HTML. The non-visual / raw HTML editor is suggested.


h2. Common Tasks

*Update the Styling for Scribe Output*
The CSS for LJScribe's output can be found in /templates/scribe_prefix.html. Editing that file and redeploying will change the CSS included with Scribe documentation output.

*Update the Scribe Template*
The HTML template (written using "Jinja2":http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/) used for LJScribe's output can be found in /templates/tag_summary_template.html. Editing that file and redeploying will change the template used for rendering Scribe documentation output.

*Update the Scribe JavaScript Logic*
Similarly, the JavaScript for LJScribe's output can be found in /templates/scribe_postfix.html. Editing that file and redeploying will change the JS included with Scribe documentation output.
